5th of May 1978 and the beginning of a session with the Corona Mexico.
Good evening.
You're being recorded. Please.
Oh, I'm sorry.
Good evening.
Please, please sit down.
We're pleased that you're here.
We have a long way to go.
I'm very pleased to be here.
Thank you.
We're excited to be here.
We've got some big questions in you, sir, and we'll proceed whenever you're ready.
Very good. I do have a number I would like to ask for participation.
Would you come up close to the microphone so that we can be all in sync?
Yes. Could you speak on the question of the purpose and the role of the Christ and the Christ's teaching
in God's plan for mankind and its evolution?
Well,
there is so much, of course, but
we shall try to respond to
what we sense are
your deep questions.
Would you exchange places with this gentleman?
Certainly.
It works best if I can speak in your direction.
We will... the question is vast, so we will limit it to what we feel are the deep questions within your consciousness, if that is alright with you.
Excellent.
First, it is, I'm sure, very obvious to you as you look back on your life, that although
you have tried to deviate at one time or another into other streams, can we proceed?
Yes.
Sorry.
The color of the flow is blue. Each of the great forces that you call religious institutions,
religious sciences, whatever, carry a color. And in the case of the Christ flow, it is
a very deep and vibrant blue. This is an interesting color for you, in that I would suspect that
that you have had experiences throughout your lifetime that may harmonize with this color.
Is this a true statement?
This is very true.
So, all these years as you pull yourself to and fro in an attempt to find the center of your quest,
you go off and then you return once again.
This is a wise selection in your case, sir, because the way of the Christ is your way.
And, now this is not true, of course, of David's gentleman on my right.
But, so all of this is mostly directed at you this evening, this section of the tape.
The place of the Christ in the world, as far as a religious force, at this time the Christ is taking the first place,
the greatest place, the strongest place, because it is the current that is most needed at this time.
The current of the Christ represents the current of the greatest love.
I am speaking of the deepest forces of love that are manifested in the universe.
And it is the Christ flow that most represents this particular strain.
Let us take, for example, the strain of the Buddha.
Now, the Buddha represents a different flow, it is a different force.
force. And the earth is in a cyclical movement and at this time the cyclical movement is
toward this deep need for greater love. Do you understand?
Yes, sir. And this is why this particular force, this
particular vehicle is being used. This explains, by the way, the great upsurge of the Christian,
what they call the Christian Church, the charismatic movements that are sweeping not only the United
States but various parts of Europe.
It is because the need is so desperately great at this time for the human vehicle to develop
the, what we would call, the heart situation.
And therefore, the reason that the Christ moves into the forefront at this time is that this
the greatest strength of his teaching.
What particular strain of this would you like to deal with?
The subject is that.
Well, I was thinking in terms of the Christ teaching that no one comes to the Father except
by me.
Could you interpret that?
All right, now, when the historic Christ spoke those words,
he was speaking from a reality of the moment to the people that were gathered around him,
and it was a literal truth.
The hope of what was to become their salvation depended entirely on him,
on his words, on what he would say, literally their salvation depended upon that.
It is equally true to say that millions of people throughout the world who are incarnate now and have been in the past and will be in the future,
their only means of salvation are through his words.
The reason is that within each entity incarnate there is a certain tuning quality, a certain
responsiveness that responds to a certain vibration.
And when he said, "No one comes to the Father except by me," whoever hears those words and
feels a resounding vibration within their being, that is the absolute and valid truth
for that person. Now, it may be that another person standing next to this individual hears
the same phrase and it falls as if on deaf ears. The reason is that there is within that
other entity another vibrational force that speaks equally deeply and purposefully to him.
What must be stressed over and over again is that there is no conflict between these two
forces.
They stem from the same river and flow into different areas.
And this is all to the joy of mankind because all of you, you know, you're not all the same
in the sense of the way that you have chosen to manifest.
And some are very much drawn to one aspect and certain ones to others.
It would be a very limited and unfair God who would ask that all of his creation respond
to only one kind of a vibration, because there are at least seven main ones, some of which
you may be interested to know have not yet come into the Earth's form.
In other words, the Earth does not really know some of them that are here at the time.
So the thing that we, on our side of the line, are so interested in expressing, and something
that I think, sir, you have been concerned with, is when you hear the words, "No one
comes to the Father except by me," does this then mean that, say, the Mohammedans and so
Are they then in some way in jeopardy of salvation?
The answer is no.
But the answer is equally true that for you, for you so much, this is a very vital truth
and you should follow it until the end of your day.
The way to the light for you is through Christ.
And you will reach it, sir, in case you have any deep questions about yourself.
I would like to clear them up a bit, sorry.
Your past has been extremely interesting.
Are you interested in it?
I certainly am.
Your past has been extremely interesting.
You have had certain lifetimes of incredible emphasis towards the awareness of the One.
And then in the following lifetime it's almost as if you feel the backlash of that tremendous
push that you've made.
And it's been very erratic if you follow me.
One lifetime you will go so far as to have in one time been a martyred saint.
I don't know if you're aware of that, but this is a true part of your past.
Were you aware of that?
I hadn't been told this.
Well, it's true.
You should accept it as true.
But then in the following life, sir, it was a backlash back into, again, into a lower
form of understanding.
And so your incarnative patterns have been erratic.
Now the call at this time in your life is this lifetime you are being called to cease
this erratic behavior and to merge every moment of your life in a very calm and deliberate
movement toward what you can achieve, which is, if you wish for it, this life can answer,
you are capable of total awareness of the One. Now, I say that to very few, but I say it
to you because we feel you are very much in need of knowing this, that you have self-doubt
in this area that has kept you from trusting into your own ability and you tend, if we
may make only one small criticism of you, you tend to listen to other people too much.
And this is not for you, sir. You have embodied within you, you see, you have a brilliant
mind, all right? That is one gift. And we would ask that you meditate on that, because
your brilliant mind has been given to you for a reason. You know, it is not a matter
of chance. It is a matter of design. And so we would ask you to meditate in the ensuing
on how you can best use this incredible mind that you have.
Now, that is one part of your being,
and it has in the past overshadowed to a great extent
the other parts of your being,
which we would like to be brought into harmony with.
We're speaking particularly of the quality of heart.
Your heart, sir, is not trusting.
Do you understand me?
I do.
Alright, now, um, you've been given a woman who loves you.
Now, she is not a very clear vehicle of this love at times because it's her own fear.
Um, but it's interesting that the two of you would have found each other, uh, because you both are of untrusting hearts.
And so, what you were called on to do is to both of you in your own way,
way overcome this untrusting heart and give yourself as totally as you can to each other
in love because it is through this closeness that the two of you have that you will begin
to trust into that movement that is within you so strongly.
I would like to touch with your permission on the situation of your job.
I'm very interested in that.
There is a jeopardy there for you.
Now we're not speaking in terms of your life.
Your life is not in jeopardy at all.
There will not be, if there is any disharmony,
it will not be a part of your karmic burden.
There may be such things happening when you're there, they may not be, but that is not the point.
The jeopardy that we speak of, it has to do with you in your development as a child of God.
The destiny that is held for you is far vaster than what you are allowing yourself to manifest.
You have had in your younger years a very deep feeling of your own special destiny. Is this true?
This is true.
But we would venture to say that you have somehow moved away from this.
This is also true.
Now, we would ask you to somehow use all of the faculties of incredible minds and beautiful hearts to come together and find your place.
Your place is very helpful where you are now.
Please understand that if one were to talk in terms of credit in the karmic sense, you
understand?
I do.
You are, shall we say, accumulating a great many credits.
And that's all for the good, because as you know, all of us in this room have certain
And so this is all for good.
But what we really have in mind for you is something far different from what you're doing.
It is not chance that you have married the woman that you're married to, because between
the two of you, you have a very great combination of abilities that can together help a great
many people.
Now, neither of you have found this to be true yet.
you haven't found your mutual niche.
If I may use the example of the other two people seated in the room with you tonight,
they have found their karmic togetherness, you see,
and have worked in harmony as a pair,
and have, because of that doubling of their abilities,
brought a great many things to fruition that alone each of them could never have achieved.
Now the same kind of destiny is possible for you and your wife.
It has not manifested at all at this stage of your relationship.
And it is, if I may be frank, it is because of both of your doubting hearts.
It is interesting for us on the other side of the light to observe within each of you
the tremendous love that each of you hold each for the other.
and yet the tremendous reluctance that each of you have for sharing this.
Do you understand me?
I certainly do.
So, begin there if you would please, and have the woman listen to this tape,
and maybe she'll wake up a little, because she's equally at fault here.
She has protected her tender heart, because she has suffered, as you know, in this time.
And she's tried very hard to learn from this, but part of the side effect of the sadness that she has suffered at the hands of the other incident is that she wants to protect herself from any further pain.
She knows that this is not a valid way to live her life and I am very confident, very confident indeed, that she will not continue with this much longer.
She is moving into a new area of awareness and we would ask your help in this.
She will move into a deeper area of spiritual awareness than she ever has before and she
will be afraid and she will be afraid because she will be in, she feels she will be in jeopardy
of losing her deep relationship with you.
She wants very much to serve you, but she must quit trying to serve you as a person and begin
to serve you as a part of the God force, which is a very different thing.
I keep asking this because I need to understand.
Am I making myself clear?
You certainly are.
All right.
When this comes upon her, it will be extremely helpful for you to be supportive of her in any way that you can.
And your heart will be attuned to know what it is that she needs, and we feel sure that she will be able to respond in kind.
Together you must find your dual destiny because you were placed together for a very specific reason.
And we would be very grateful for our side of things if you would find your way together to fulfill it because it is important.
You will both play an important part in things if you will allow yourself to do so.
You will not stay in the same type of work that you're in for very much longer.
Because as you become more and more attuned to what is going on within your deepest self,
other doors will open.
It is not necessary for us at this time to tell you anything,
because one of the things that we want from you is to have your own inward-looking process
develop to such a high tone that you will not need this kind of assistance.
Do you see?
I really see it.
And you have tremendous capabilities, tremendous capabilities along this line, far more than
she does.
You have the intuitive quality to be able to discern movement in the destiny.
If you reflect back on your life with her, you will realize that it is often you who says,
"I feel so and so" will happen.
And indeed, if you've kept any record at all, you'll see that this is proven to be true.
Now her talents lie in a different area.
Her talents are much more in the heart quality, as you know.
Your mind is more brilliant than hers is, and she knows this, and she finds no quarrel
with it.
we would ask that you would have no quarrel with her ability, which is a flowering of the heart.
Because you see, together you will then be able to manifest the two qualities that are so much needed in the next years of this planet.
Bartholomew, in the future, would it be permissible for us to check back with you to see whether
we indeed are pursuing the right path?
Are we in tune with the course and the plan for us?
I would be pleased to do that.
But I must also say again that the two of you joined together in power would be able to do
what is being done now with much more clarity, you see.
And when I say "join together," I mean actually in the beginning a literal joining together,
say, of the hands in a mutual prayer or sitting side by side in mutual meditation after.
We must touch on this, and we do hope that you will take it in all good humor.
you think you could do this? I'm more than well. You have in the past reached deep states
of awareness through meditation and indeed deep states through not very serious meditation
is this true? This is true. Now the question then is why have you been like that? I guess
I have been distrustful.
That, I think, is a very true statement of the quality of the situation.
Be aware that you are capable of doing and can do and must do whatever it is you wish
to do.
At least, there is no coercion here at all.
But we would ask, on behalf of the light that we all serve, that you reconsider your position.
You have a quality that very few humans have, sir, and you will not be doing it.
Would you care to elaborate?
you have an attunement
with the higher forces that is almost a natural one
and you tune into that force with relative ease
so that it is hard for you to understand the struggles that other people go through
because it is such an easy thing for you
but
you will not be able to hear the voice that you seek to hear
without some kind of deep centering.
And the best way of deep centering is to have a decided time
for a meditative situation. It doesn't matter in your case how long it is, really.
Because, you see, you have a tremendous power of concentration.
It is a very compact concentration. That is part, a side effect of a brilliant mind.
a tremendous ability to concentrate, to give oneself totally.
This is something that your wife lacks, and this is her tremendous struggle.
Now, this is a tremendous ease for you, and you find no problem with it, but you don't use it.
It's rather ludicrous in a sense. She's struggling so hard for it, and you have it with such ease.
But, um, in a sense, she's doing better in this than you are, you know?
because she's trying harder at this stage of her life, you see.
And you have sort of given up on it, in a way,
and you go to words and you go to readings, and all of this is fine.
And we encourage, in fact, your new trend, your new movement,
with this new group that you were congregating an affiliation with, this church.
This is to be encouraged in you and all of the readings and so forth that go with it,
this is to be encouraged because there is nothing there, believe me sir, there is nothing there
that you will learn that you don't know, you see, because you have all of this data recorded
within you from lifetime.
I mean, you have lived some of that data.
Some of that drama has been your experience.
But what it will serve to do is to motivate, to reactivate those things within you that
you have allowed to go fallow.
And you know, and this I speak to all of you in this room, when you seek to keep a body
form, you will be accountable for what you have used, you know?
all been given, the four of you in this room have been given an incredible amount of talent
in the spiritual world. And when the day comes that you stand there, you will be called to
reckon. You will be asked, "Have you used it? Have you really used it?" So, in your
In your case, you've been given a tremendous amount and we're counting on you to use it.
Other people see this in you.
Spiritual leaders of various strains have responded to you and understood you and wanted you to become a part of their process because they have understood it.
But you've only gone so far and then you seem to hold on.
Is this statement of his true?
It's very true.
We would ask that you reconsider this position.
You would be able to help so many more people on such a vast system.
You see, the things that are in line for you are much vaster than you really believe.
I'm speaking of really vast work.
Really vast work.
And we've given you the woman who can help you.
And we ask both of you to get on with it, you know.
Because there's a lot to be done, and it's not being done.
And the way to begin is to begin to ask yourself deeply each day, "What is my way?
Show me a way.
Teach me."
Learn, sir, to be taught, if you would.
You know, you're a great teacher, but the greatest sign of a great teacher is what kind
of a student you are.
If you can become as great a student as you are a teacher, you will easily fulfill the
function that we have. Do you have any other questions?
Well, you know Bartholomew, you have anticipated all of the questions on my list already. I
do have a small question and I think that you have in a way answered it already, but I wonder
if you could say something about the purpose that was served in my contracting this disease,
which obviously was planned.
Well, first, first of all, we would like to say that given a very deep and difficult trial,
You have arisen, I promise.
Now we just continue.
You have gained in the last three weeks
more wisdom than you have in the last three years.
You have come again into harmony.
You have left the harmony, you know, quite a few years now.
And in the last few weeks you have re-entered that role of one of the carriers of the light.
The experiences that you have had to go through were brutal in many ways.
But they're... it was the only thing that you could think of to do.
It was startling. It was to startle the total being so that you would remember.
It is sort of an imagery perhaps would be being thrown into an icy lake, you see?
Yes.
The awakening has to be that sudden because something that all of you on the Earth plane tend to forget
is that there are things to be done
that there is much to be done
and there is a lot of help needed and often time
and please understand it was with your full agreement that this was done
it was with your full agreement that
the plunge into the lake was taken. You see
you exist on various levels and
The level on which your mind is now, for example, all of you in this room, that is one level of existence.
And it is valid in its own way, with its own rules, its own rituals, its own lives.
But, as you are all aware, there are much higher areas.
Now, you move, especially in the sleep state, you move to other areas.
It is in your movement, in these other areas, of time, and then out of time, that this was contracted,
between you and those, those guides that worked with you.
And it was discussed, just as we are discussing now.
And the decision was made that this would be undertaken.
The outcome was never really crucial.
There was never any real question that you would die.
But the question had to be raised.
What is life for?
It is only in times of extreme crisis that the questions come to the mind.
What is my life for?
Why am I here?
And so it was agreed.
And so it was.
Now, your teacher is different from your wife's teacher.
By that I mean, I am not your teacher.
I love you.
But, your contact is different from hers.
And this is good.
This is very good.
Because you see, your teacher has a whole different awareness that vibrates perfectly with your awareness,
just as mine vibrates perfectly with hers, and therefore is best able to help you.
Your guide is so close to you that you'll be at peace.
And he waits, and he waits, and he waits.
So, we would ask you to please reconsider your life goals.
If you dedicate your heart and your mind to a divine union with the power that moves through you constantly.
If you will do that, sir, we will take care of the rest of it.
You know, you're a very conscientious man and much to be admired, you know?
But we'll take care of those things if you'll only allow me to.
I am speaking of mortgages, payments, education, colleges, dental bills.
Do you follow me?
I do.
We'll take care of those things for you.
But we cannot begin to move as a dynamic force in your life and begin these changes until
you totally dedicate yourself to it.
Because once you do that, you will be for all intents and purposes lost to this world in
one sense.
This is why we've given you the wife that we have, because she is one of the women who
will go along with this.
You know, she's not afraid of poverty.
She's not afraid of not having things.
She's not afraid of a lot of things.
The one thing she's afraid of is losing the love.
Now, there are not many people who are like that, you know.
There are many people who care a great deal for not having poverty, for having the finest.
But she was carefully selected because she will be able to go along with anything that
comes along.
So, please give her the respect that it deserves and know that she works as a part of our plan
with you.
You and each other, in the holiest sense, you see, you and each other, you both have tremendous
strength.
They're different, but they are not opposite.
They are not in competition.
They are complementary.
So, what would you do?
Would you give thought to this?
I certainly would.
And see if out of this experience of a new baptism, you know, the word "baptism" is extremely
extremely important and especially in your life. It would be great fun for you to someday
be able to play back the life of baptisms that you've gone through, physical, the various
baptisms in various bodies of waters and so forth. Is there something wrong? Can I?
No, I'm just checking.
And this last experience that you've had with your illness is a new baptism.
Have you felt that at all?
Yes, I have.
Fine.
Because that is what we hope.
That it is a total cleansing, even to the point of your whole physical being.
You see, it's a cleanness, it's a newness, it's a new skin, a new skin for a new one
to be placed in.
I think that symbology will be meaningful to you.
It is meaningful.
So, in the name of the light, and in the name of the Christ, which we both serve, we would
ask that you reconsider in the next two months your deepest yearnings and see if you can
and become one with the knowledge that your guide is waiting to present to you.
Have I contacted my guide before now?
Oh yes. Oh yes you have.
But you see, your guide stands so close to the prize.
You know, life comes in all shapes and forms, sizes, vibrations.
But yours can, so too.
But you must...
You must be in a...
How can I speak this?
You must be in a relatively pure state to be able to hear it.
Do you understand?
I do.
There are many people that can meet guides, all kinds of guides.
But the purity of the person calls forth the purity of the guide.
And in your case, if you could work toward a greater purification, whatever that means
to you, we will not spell it out because it is part of your learning process to find out
what things are pure for you and what things are not.
But as you move toward that, it will be a dual movement.
you become more purified, you will be able then to receive so much more.
You know, this is the reason for all of these tremendous rituals and purification rites
and in the deep Indian tradition, all of the renunciations and so forth.
I'm speaking now to all of you in the room.
This is because it is true that the degree to which the body and mind are in a pure state,
reflect a pure light vibration. I'm sure you're all aware of this. But this is the reason
for it. It's nothing mysterious. The more pure your mind, the more absorbed your mind,
in your case, sir, was the word, if you follow that.
I do.
The more you are absorbed in the word, the purer you will become. It will be almost an
automatic thing. We do not suggest that you run home and begin a great program of rigorous
self-discipline, that would be superfluous. As you become one with the word, it will be
almost as if the purification is done for you. I think you have already sensed a great
deal of this in the last few weeks. Is that true?
It's already begun to happen. Right, and this is why we speak to it. Allow
Allow this to continue to happen, will you?
I will.
Don't put such restrictions on yourself that you become rigid and antagonistic, you see.
Allow yourself the flow of wine, for example.
Wine is a lovely thing.
Properly used wine is a lovely thing.
And your beloved Christ, He tries it, you know.
Problem is, don't become so rigid in your discipline that spontaneity goes out of your
Your life will purify on its own as long as you continue to submerge yourself in the Word.
So don't worry about it.
But once again, we would like to say two things to you.
One, you have vastly underestimated your abilities and your role as a child of the light in this
Recall back to your early years and try and remember the stamp that was given so long
ago on your lap.
And we ask a second, if you do your utmost, to use the gift that you have been given,
because there is feeling, I think all of us have feeling, there is feeling.
You have no idea of that of what is after you, of you.
But now through meditation and with meditating on my guide I will begin to learn more specifically
what is expected of me.
Is this correct?
Once you turn your mind and heart over to Christ, your life will totally change and you will
only have to move through it.
You will have to make very little effort.
You think the emphasis must be on merging with the Word.
All else will follow. All else.
It will be as if out of nowhere someone approaches you and asks if you will undertake something.
And you will do it. I mean you will know, intuitively, that it moves in harmony with the Word.
If I were speaking to this person I would say that it moves in harmony with the Tao.
This is a meaningful phrase for you.
This is the word for you.
You see?
And it is such a simple thing.
It one turns one's entire mind and heart over to the word.
Which you can do.
And immerse yourself in that.
In the first place you will move into joy.
Now joy has been a stranger to you for a long time, hasn't it?
Yeah, unfortunately.
And this does not need to be because actually you were created as one of the joyful ones of God.
And as a child, you know, you were.
If you will think back on the early years, you were a sun in the sky.
There was sun and joy.
And then life began to take its toll and you lost it.
Now's the time to move back into the sun.
You know, you also carry the sign of the sun.
And that's important.
That's an area for me.
Well, the sun in you
is that each person has a different sign.
Not astrologically speaking. No.
No, no. Astrologically speaking,
quite frankly, much of the astrology
Much of the astrology is grossly misinterpreted and twisted and I would not put a great deal
of faith in it.
No, I'm speaking of, it's almost as if various people have stamps upon their being and with
With you it's the stamp of the sun, and it is also the stamp of the Son of God, in a
very meaningful Christian sense.
So you will have all things of this union, but unfortunately, it's the only thing about
when you give up all things and bring your Lord.
And once you've done this, your path will be so obvious that you will shake your head
and wonder if you didn't understand it before.
You know?
It will seem, "How did I get here?"
Seven years later.
Yes, I have no questions.
May the Holy Spirit bless you.
I wonder if you could speak a little bit about my wife and my relationship with a man who
was our teacher or served in capacity life vats for a number of years in Taos, New Mexico
and his name is Herman Rednick.
And we have wondered for some time now whether it was right for us to leave him and what
our relationship is with him.
Well, first of all, you are absolutely right, Lisa.
You see, now for the great majority of this gentleman's following, it is right that they
stay with him.
But once again, without seeming to, what do you want to say, give undue praise to you,
I must say again that you and your wife carry a different destiny than many people.
And the destiny that you two will be asked to carry out is vaster than that which you
see, because it will be based on a different level of vibration.
He is a beautiful son of God, a beautiful son of God.
In fact, it must be stated, and this will come as a surprise to many people, he stands
closer to the light than does your other teacher, Swami Jyoti.
The reason being that Mr. Rednick has a great deal of humility, and it is through humility
that one comes to know God.
although much of what he presents can be easily and is easily garbled or has been in the past,
his heart is in a very pure state. Much of it is garbled, much of it is garbled, but
the strain, the field, the force field through which he moves and which manifests through him
it was very true and very high-stakes.
The problem is it gets garbled in the translation.
Now, this is no longer as true as it was in the past.
And I believe that you should have no feelings of doubt
or any other such feelings about leaving me.
It was part of our movement in your life to remove you.
You know, it was a chance that we moved you out of that situation.
If it had been best for you, you'd still be there.
You know, it would be true.
So, please trust us, my little son.
Please trust that we know what is best for your destiny.
For example, the latest meeting you've had with the leader of this church group?
Yes.
This man will be important to you.
More so to you than to your wife.
But he will be important to you.
That's really all we need to say at this time.
But also, again, please do not be in dismay when you find yourself moving out of that situation.
Certain things are needed at certain times and one needs to participate fully in that
moment and this is a very special and wonderful time and it will come as a surprise to you
but in a few months you may be finding that you and your wife are teaching him things
that he needs to know.
You see?
It is a reciprocal agreement to have made
to come to a greater understanding.
Do you see?
There's something on both sides.
There are certain things that he needs to know
that you know.
And there are certain things that you need to know that he knows.
So there will be an exchange.
But please don't be overly concerned.
May I ask another question?
Sure.
Of perhaps a more theoretical nature,
if I have observed,
through the various experiences that have occurred to me,
and this recent one with Bachel from being an example,
that the major events of my life,
major things that have happened to me, for example,
my marriage with Mary Margaret,
the several occupations I've had,
my interest in philosophy and whatnot,
the child that was born to us and the other children,
these things do not seem to be my doing,
and they don't seem to be matters in which I ultimately have to very much
Although on a more mundane level, I can see that I made certain choices and there were
certain results, I really have the impression that I don't have much control over what happens
to me.
Well, of course you don't.
And just be grateful that you don't.
Left to our own devices on the earth's plane, as I remember so well from my experience on
so well from my experience that I would say,
that left to our own devices on the earth's planet,
things would be chaotic indeed if we were allowed to manifest
all of our various and sensuous desires.
Can you imagine a universe founded on that basis?
You would not wish, you would not wish to live there.
You would not.
Now, I would like to say one thing, however, that might not be correct.
One moment, please.
I would like to try to get in touch with your guy.
I'm not sure the vehicle of the woman can do it. We will have to try.
Justin.
Yes, ma'am.
It's been a long time.
Indeed.
Have you not missed me?
I have longed for you greatly.
Then why have you not come?
It's my own doubt and fear that has prevented it.
Listen.
Listen well. It is my service to you that those who come to me will be relieved of doubt and
fear. There is nothing upon the earth plane that will be able to ever remove your doubt
If you wish peace, joy, light and wisdom, there is but one place that you can come to.
I have taught you this in past times. I come to remind you again. I am in you.
Master, can you give me specific instructions as to what you would want me to do at this time in my life?
You have abandoned all connection.
You have ceased to strengthen it.
If you seek to strengthen it, it is as if it does not exist.
We will build a connection again through two ways.
You must begin an organized, deliberate time of meeting with me.
I will be there. Will you be there?
I will be there.
Second, you must learn to listen to yourself.
It was said earlier this evening, I will say again.
You listen to others, to others.
Your way is your way.
Created between us before Earth life began.
There is much to be done and I am waiting.
is
that
Master, is there any particular meditation that you're wishing to use?
You have, in your lifetime, many, many times
[?]
Embrace the cross.
It is through your surrender to the cross as you perceive it.
If you are being in time of doubt, throw yourself at the foot of the cross.
It has not failed you.
It will.
The Christ that you know and understand has a plan for you.
Please, recall the plans that we made before coming.
Please, respond to what you know to be a blessing.
Go to the cross and it will always be a blessing.
If we lay back, we surrender, and we are quiet.
We're not there yet.
Yes.
Are there any other questions?
No.
I have to go. I have to go tomorrow.
It's beautiful.
It's time.
The last one is Friday, I think.
Yes.
So, so, are you finished?
We have to go.
Thank you, Bhagwan.
Good afternoon.
Good afternoon, Bhagwan.
Have you thought of anything?
Yes.
First, I would like to ask for some insight on your success in your relationship with Shri Shantananda Alex.
So this is a relationship in the terminology of the world that has come home to me.
I believe that's what the term is.
Namaste. This is an old, an old relationship.
More in relationship to your wife really than anything else.
But nevertheless, interesting and touch for you.
I believe I will address most of this to your wife, since she does seem to be the focal point of this.
If you don't mind, this is for me.
The first thing that I would really like to tell you is that,
although the circumstances may seem difficult for you on the physical plane,
There is a gap here of tremendous importance.
Your connection with her is old, has not been very important in this lifetime at all,
but nevertheless carries a very strong impression from two lifetimes ago.
This is a carryover, of course, that is stated out of your consciousness and also out of hers.
The reason that she is here in this particular relationship is to enable me to repay this
project that has been left over.
The main thing is to remember that it will not be of a very long-lasting nature.
you will not be in relationship to you in this way for very much longer.
But make good use of it if you would while she's here because there are some important
lessons.
First of all, the most important thing that we would ask you to remember is that there
is nothing you can do for her.
This is because of your awareness of freedom that can exist on the earth plane within one's mind.
If one's mind has light in it, you feel that you would like in some way transfer this wisdom to her so that she may help her.
One hates to give up on anyone, but please rest assured that experts have tried in this field and have failed.
She has been given many, many opportunities to lighten her load, literally to lighten it, to bring light to herself, to her load.
She has within her conscious memory in this lifetime many, many references of various religions and textbooks
that would, if she would become deeply concentrated on it, would tremendously lighten her life.
But each time she has chosen to remain as she is.
So please, first and foremost, do not feel at all responsible for transforming any of this, please.
Alright?
And don't even make a terribly great effort to incorporate her into your group
or to make any special efforts along that line.
In a sense, we are dealing with a spoiled child.
He has for many years been allowed to be spoiled and continues it in its later advanced years.
But don't be overly concerned.
And when you're there, my concern mostly is that she will try to somehow bleed from you.
This is a term that we use. I don't know how it translates to for you.
A bleeding of an energy field from one person to another is a very common thing on the Earth
plane that is not always observed by the human.
Meaning that she would gain energy from you?
Exactly.
Yeah.
Now this takes many forms.
It's not just a matter of as you sit there that she would somehow remove it from you.
It usually will come in the terms of wanting you to do extra extraneous things for her.
In other words, you using your energy for her rather than for her being herself.
Now many things that other people can perform for this woman she could do for herself.
And it is a way of her becoming center stage.
And that's all a very childish response to this situation.
And really, if you can get it out of your mind, if you're dealing with an adult, I think you
would do better.
Just look on her with the tenderhearted concern as you would of a child who has not yet reached
the state of maturity.
It's not a premature case, but she will pass over and will still be in this state and then
will have much to do with that if it's not your concern.
So our worry is do not allow her to misuse your energy and your time
because it is not as if you were helping her to be more positive.
Do what you feel is vital and is loving and is necessary,
but please be well aware that there is a childish resentment in her
against any field of love for anyone else that you may have.
And this includes your husband.
He resents the times and the tides that you have built up with him.
He will resent very much knowing, for example, when your family is issuing,
"This will be another time that you will have difficulties."
These times will, you know, repeat themselves with anyone who is close to you.
But just as you would not indulge a child, as you would just be firm and loving,
we would request that you consider this approach to her.
One, you cannot really help her.
So please don't make overly conscientious efforts along that line.
And two, really stand and move.
There is on the Earth planet this time a lot of children
A lot of children
who are called
I cannot remember the term
I'm sorry
It was a
The way the students were asked was they were overly active
next to
tension, what do you mean?
Hyperactive children
Yes
Now
And there are many more of them on the earth plane at this time than there ever have been.
And this is an interesting question that no one seems to have asked yet, as to why.
Well, this woman should be considered for an abuse.
She will make excessive demands, she will be very arbitrary,
she will be very full of tempers and intentions, in a sense.
And just treat it as you would one of these children.
Abby, anything else?
Yes, just one more question.
You mentioned that I had a debt that I owe to her.
Is there anything else that I owe her?
Or anything else that I need to do for her, even though I can't help her with her understanding?
Is there any other debt here that I owe her?
Well, it is a small matter in terms of, in the two last times that I spoke of,
that there was an opportunity when you were less developed two lifetime ago.
You have done a great deal in your two lifetime.
And two lifetime ago, there was an opportunity
for you to help her in a physical manner, on a physical plane,
simply in a physical way.
And you turned on her and did it.
And it's simple that. It's nothing terribly complicated or terribly...
It's certainly nothing other than that.
We have the opportunity, we have the opportunity, we have the presidency set out at this time
and to end your responsibility and to execute your responsibility and to stop all of this
going on.
I just want to make the point, just the fact that I really, really, really, really, really
second and third if he's alright, that if he has to leave, he has to leave.
So that's better?
Take care of it, that's better.
Okay, thank you so much.
There's no need for any concern.
The moment she really wants help, there is so much crowding within her home that is waiting to assist her.
So we simply wait for her.
We have been continuing to study the polynomial power of four groups,
and some of those have been developed in our subjects for a period of time.
Going into some of these groups, there are two that are left possibly in the subject,
and this is a subject I would like to suggest that you might have for the function of this group,
and perhaps to individuals, it might be the benefit to most.
Well, I think it's a wonderful idea.
And I'm so glad you picked it up.
Because it is something that we have been suggesting in various ways to you for quite a while.
And we're very pleased that you've received this message.
Because this is indeed what is needed because your group has been at the level
and there are those who are very much ready for a new figure.
Now, there is one problem you have not fixed.
The one to do not...
The problem that you will face is how to get a core group to function
without making the others feel in any way left out.
Now, I think that one of the ways to avoid this obvious problem is if you announce that
you are going to start a very serious strategy and that it will involve a degree of commitment,
But certain ones of them will eliminate themselves automatically.
You understand what I mean?
But some of them will say, "Well, obviously I don't have the time, I don't have the interest," and so forth.
But there is an internal need.
But then there will be others who will be drawn,
who will not really be as committed as they think they are,
but for a social reason or for their own ego or for whatever reason,
will then be drawn to come in.
I would not be overly concerned about them,
because one of two things will happen.
They will either become very serious, which is of course what you would hope for, but
through the deeper studying that they are into, this will then bring forward the very thing
that you're trying for.
Or they will find themselves either bored or can't find the time or will leave themselves
out of the situation.
Don't be overly concerned, but I think your presentation must be very strong, that this
that this is a disciplined order. You see, there will be a set
path even, so much of the beginning path. You see what I'm saying? It must be structured
in a very disciplined manner. There should be required times of medication for them,
whatever you choose to set up. But there must be a commitment on their part prior to joining it.
if you could present it as sort of an experiment, if you will.
You know, if you would like to experiment on whether certain things are beneficial or not
and you would like a certain core group to work with you.
Now, if everyone in your group volunteers, then you will have a difficult problem
and you may have to drop the charges. Do you see?
If the knife that you announced, if they all say, "Fine, let us turn this knife into that serious study,"
Then you will have to think about that.
Then you may have to impose those rules right then
and say that this is a requirement
and that of course anyone who comes on that particular night
will have to fulfill these requirements.
Do you see?
No, we're making it an afternoon meeting for that reason, partner.
My point is this.
If on your night of your meeting you announce this,
Everyone will say, "Well, that's why we're here.
That's why we're sitting here. That's just what we want."
Now this will then give you pause.
And you may then have to say, "Alright, then let us turn this into a definite group meeting with definite structures."
You see, the rules that were applied to your afternoon meeting will now have to be applied to your evening meeting.
And then you'll have to see how it works out.
You may get a lot of the people that come in the evening will simply not come anymore because
it's too intense, they don't get to talk enough, they have to do too much meditation, things
are too deep or you see they will weep and tell jokes.
So many things can happen.
I think you would do best if you would keep an open mind and as you see here Mr. Sage,
we would like to have a very serious core group that will go into deeper areas of these subjects
field and I would appreciate it if those of you who are interested will contact me at a
later time.
Because this then removes that spontaneous combustion of everyone saying, "Oh, no, no,
I want it, you think, please contact me at a later time."
That in itself will weed out a lot of the people who will not take the time to telephone, to
set up an appointment to come and see you.
And I think that you should both be very serious about that sort of meeting when they come,
each one comes on their own to you.
To really work with them as to whether it is something they really want.
In other words, to have a certain standard that you would set.
And then ask them if this is really what they're looking for.
Sort of like you have an opening in a job.
You know, you have to present your desires and what you want in the group
and see if that person who is sitting there will be able to fulfill that or who even wants to.
You must be sober about it is my meaning. Otherwise you are going to have the same pattern repeating
only your afternoon group will be filled with people who don't work and who don't want to go
to the supermarket you see. So much of it depends on your seriousness and please as much as you can
and put aside all preconceived ideas of who should belong, because you may be surprised.
May I ask a question?
To understand you correctly, that when we announced this meeting, and then when we set a time
that they come, we should have a program laid out, say, if we would work it out between ourselves,
My thought was this, the evening comes and you announce that you are going to, do not
say you are thinking of, just say you are going to start a core group and anyone who is interested
please contact you by phone
at a later date
and you will set up
with each person individually
any time when they come to your home
and discuss with you
whether
they would really want to participate in this
you see?
And then each one will come at a separate time
Oh, okay
not having four people come at once
I see
because you see what you really want is
first of all the person who cares enough to make the phone call
the person who cares enough to set up the interview,
the person who cares enough to give thought to what you present.
Now, when each one of them individually comes and speaks to you,
that is when you could say, "This is a rigorous program,
this is what we have in mind,
we're going to have these as our certain criteria,
and we really want this to be a much more intense and serious situation."
Now, many of the egos will respond, "Yes, yes,"
but in actuality, many of them will probably drop out
because they will not be able to prove themselves about how rigorous they're being.
And I think it would be important, very important, that there be a knowledge in them
that if they do take this on, that they will really give themselves to it for a certain period of time
as an experimental group.
But again I say you should be serious about this and the reason I say that is that you
tend to be a little tenuous about things like this.
You see, you are a little tenuous.
And that is not really... that makes them tenuous.
Well, if I do the work that's alright, but if I don't well then I feel like... this kind
of thing.
So if you could be a little more sober about that.
Yes.
Thank you.
Thank you. The next point that I wanted to ask about, Arnold Kleinbierger, historian, made a statement recently that he saw one of the most important events in this era was the interpenetration of Christianity by Buddhism. Do you have any comments on that?
The movement of the world, the movement of all of the forces on the earth plane is toward a oneness.
The statement that he is making comes from his bias and should be understood as such.
But what is represented in the truth of all that kind of statement is that the aim of
those of us that stand on the other side of the light is to pierce the mind of man with
the knowledge that the energy from which their each varying religion derives its meaning
comes from one source.
And any interpenetration is only successful to the extent that each of those two entities
come to see their deep similarity of source.
It would be a sane statement, a sane truth in a statement to say
that Mohammedanism and Christianity coming together
would be an important event.
Or the religion of Islam, whatever.
Because what is really the thrust of all of this
is for all to see that there is one source.
There is one source.
And any movement that can be made on the earth plane for people
to blend their varying dichotomies together
into an awareness that there is only one source from which they spring.
That is a very monumental
movement on the part of the human entity.
So,
there's not anything particularly special about Buddhism and Christianity,
but the only time that it will be at all special is
if, as a result,
if these two different feelings, these two different strains
can blend together to the point where they recognize
their one basic source from which they spring,
then it will have been a successful experiment.
It is by no means a completed fact.
By no means.
And in fact, there is jeopardy, because it could set them up,
set many people up in opposition, you see.
Any kind of a force like this also creates an opposite force, and some of that opposite force is taking
a great deal of manifestation in the Christian world, where they are becoming, if I may say, bullheaded
about this, you see. They are...it's almost a backlash of isolation.
The Christian movement is becoming perhaps even more isolated, in a sense, a certain strain of it.
as a result of what they consider to be that thrust of this Buddhist philosophy.
But the basic important thing for all to see, from our perception,
the basic thing that they need to see, is to drop all of the extraneous things that are not the same.
For example, the enlightened Buddhists or the enlightened Christians will tell you
that the understanding of Christ and the Buddha are very similar.
They are very similar.
There are certain areas, of course, where they differ because of many obvious things.
But the truth, the heart of both of these,
be with truth, and this is what is hoped.
This is what is hoped, you see.
Now, it may not be successful.
It may not work.
You implied one time that that was part of my function at this time, was to promote this sort of thing.
Yes, this is still true.
And the reason that you are helpful in this regard is that you are able to also see the truth that lies in Christianity.
You see, it's not very healthy to have a lot of people biased.
A lot of Christians saying that their way is the only way, and a lot of Buddhists, which they also say,
but their way is the only way.
We observe a very interesting thing.
The Hindu, for example, says
that he is willing to
honor other gods and so forth.
But in fact,
if you wish to take each individual
Hindu, you see,
and ask that particular Hindu
his particular deep belief,
what he will tell you is
that his particular deity
is the strongest. You see, there really is very little...
A Buddhist, for example, is very willing to say, "Yes, Christianity can be accepted," and so forth.
But if you take a particular Buddhist and speak to him clearly, what he says is, "Buddha is the way."
You see what I'm saying? That although the theology of these various religions gives approval of other religions,
in the heart of the person who is doing the worshipping,
there is a feeling of superiority over other religions.
And this is what we want so much,
to see breaking down if we can.
And the reason that you will be helpful,
you will be helpful to the extent that you can see
the Christ heart beating within the Buddha's heart,
and realizing that they both beat
with the same pulse because it is the pulse of God.
You see, they tend to forget that it is God that is the source from which all of the Christ
and the Buddha stream, you see.
And the antithesis must go back to the sinner and to the similarities instead of to the dissimilarities.
Once you made a statement about reincarnation and it seemed to me that you viewed the subject
from a different perspective from the usual one that we have here on this planet.
Would you help us with your insight on this process?
Well, incarnation, reincarnation, the whole subject is very muddled.
The reason for this is, of course, the ego's tremendous desire to feel that it will live
on forever.
And therefore it tries very hard to keep its life pulse beating throughout eternity.
Therefore you have many of the doctrines that say that one life follows another and so forth.
What I am going to say will probably not please many of you or maybe any of you.
But what is true is that your life as each one of you individually live it is not as
separate from other people's lives as your perception would lend you to think.
For example, in the case of you and your wife, you've spent many years together.
You must perceive your life as your own entity moving through certain steps, affected by your
This is a typical view of reincarnation.
Now, that is partially true, but it is partially not true, because the fact is that if you
could perceive with the inner eye rather than just the eyes of the body, you would perceive
that the body of you and your wife, there is no difference.
You see, if you could see this in your mind and could see the perception of the movement,
the unrelating movement of light that moves between these four bodies,
you would laugh at this idea of your tremendous separateness,
because you are not separate.
You see, a thought comes from that gentleman there,
over this way, and its movement blends with what is happening here and changes it.
There is not this tremendous wall that separates each one,
and this is why the great teachers have emphasized over and over and over again,
When you begin the movement toward awareness of the light, of the God Self, of the Christ, of the Buddha, whatever,
when you begin this movement, the reason I ask you to be selective about who you're with
is because of these very human elements which I'm speaking.
It is not some kind of a prudish, um, specialistic idea.
is simply a truth that you blend
and the ones that are closest to you in physical form
are the ones you blend the easiest with.
This makes good sense to you, I hope.
So, therefore, this is why we have a concern about this gentleman
and his job that he is chosen.
Do you understand me, sir?
I certainly do.
Because he also is not separate
from all of the movements that are happening out where he is located.
And although we have done our best to protect him with a shield of light, there is only
so much that one can do when a person is placed in that environment.
The reason that he will move out of his location is simply that as he becomes more purified,
as his consciousness becomes more and more attuned, it will be increasingly, instead
of being easier to be there, it will be more difficult to be there.
because there will be this continual mingling. Do you see what I'm saying?
That their consciousness, of those entities, is on a lower plane at this time
and is unfortunately kept isolated because that's almost all they have.
And they draw on to them people who they call guards whose consciousness are very similar.
Now, the exceptions are in the teaching staff
and there is other ten points of light that I perceive now in that building.
There are ten points of light.
The teaching end of the building has this.
But if you understand this room, this is one of the reasons why you may find yourself moving out of that.
Now, back to the reincarnation.
It is very, very funny for us to view all of you feeling that your little life is so special
and so separate and so very independent from our perception.
Please be glad that this is not so.
Because if this were true, it would be extremely difficult for you to transcend.
Extremely.
Because you see, if you were independent one from another, you would also be independent
from the source of the good ones, from the source of the great ones that stand there, you see.
You cannot be isolated only from other people and not... and also then be open to the vast
wisdom of the great ones that stand there, you see.
So be grateful, please, that it's been set up in this manner.
It is much more wonderful, if you can get the mind to some extent, so much more wonderful
to realize that as the four of these bodies sit in this room, that what they all are is
this melding and merging and doing in many ways a lesson with them, you see.
And this is why the environment in which you live speaks importantly to you also.
You know, if you live in a very dark hovel, there is something within that dark hovel that
can take upon you and you will become a part of that because you think you are a part of
this. You are a part of this. You know there is nothing in this environment that you are
not in movement with. From your perception it's a lot of separate things. In reality
it is movement. And so against you, to you I would say that the environment that you
The way the Orient presents this jeopardy, because they are confined into one limited area,
it makes the power of it stronger and there is less likelihood of it opening up.
Now the one fortunate thing is where it is placed.
I see it on a vast mesa, open to the open area of that tree.
And this is very helpful because you see there is a movement, a harmony of land and sky and
clouds, wind moves through there and that does help to dissipate a lot of that.
And you force your choice to place these institutions out in such areas and not stay in the heart
of the city where they would be even more impacted with difficult mindsets.
Because the land itself vibrates to help them, you see.
That there is a movement within the land because there is no separation between the sand and
the sky and the sea and the building and the beings.
There is this movement, this constant exchange.
Have I made this clear to you?
Yes.
This matter, you said that you talked about the self as land.
and then you have two lifetimes of the opposite?
How does that relationship work?
Now there is always, there is always a focal point in a sense that we would call in this
case, Louisa Aiken.
Now, Louisa Aiken perceives herself as the same person with various changes leading to
one lifetime.
Now in reality, if she could see herself, she would realize that she is now a tremendous
composite of a great many other people, images, movements, thought forms, and so forth.
But there still is a center core around which some of these adhere.
Now the most important particles, the most important movements,
coalesce into the strongest particles.
Now I'm not thinking necessarily of the most positive or the most negative.
I'm just saying the strongest, it's as if there's a magnet named Lurica
and certain forces are drawn to her and sometimes right through her
because there is no responding magnetism of any kind
and they just become unimportant. They do not affect the core of the person.
But on the other hand, certain other things move through her
that have a tremendous correlation that have what you would call a hook-up.
a hookup, it's almost a molecular, it is a light hookup within her of correspondence
of vibration and they stay with her. And so it is this essence that we speak of as Louisa.
To go, to say two lifetimes ago is very helpful for her at this moment in understanding her
situation with this woman. Alright? Now if I were to speak from another perception I would
that there's a residue within this woman, within Luisa, that needs to be dissipated.
It will be dissipated through the giving of light to this manifestation outside herself
that she sees at this other woman.
When this is given to her, the thing will be, the molecular tension will be broken and this
will be just away from her and no longer be a part of her.
Do you understand me?
Would you like a clarification?
Well, I was thinking, I think, I mean, seeing different people that we meet that come through our lives.
And I have noticed this in myself, that some of them, you just automatically feel a great closeness and a love.
And you join in this union of closeness and being with them.
There are other people, very nice people, very good people, that you don't feel like seeing
the attraction for.
And I have wondered about that.
Is that the thing, that they're on a different vibration?
That's true.
They're not important for what you are a composite of at that moment.
For example, someone who in your terminology is not very spiritually evolved, which is the
this is the term that we use, what you really are saying is that the vibrational impact
of that person is pulling toward it life's impact and it is on the same frequency level.
Now as that person allows themselves, and this usually often has to happen in times of crises,
in times of crises we act in different ways. We have the power at certain junctures of
life when a call is made, this is why crises are so important, the crises come into the
life of say this so-called lower evolved person, the crises break them into, jolt them into
an asking. Now, they'd ask, this is our chance, you see, because prior to that we cannot,
You see, we cannot just keep hounding that person and hounding that person.
Their free will is what motivates what will happen to them.
The crisis comes, the crack in the armor, they call out in whatever way,
"Oh my God, help me. If you will help me, I give you promises to do this, this, this."
So forth, you see. Many times we see this happen.
Many times they renege on them in later times, you see.
All these promises are just forgotten.
That is not the point. The point is that at that moment there is a cry.
The vibrational entity has said, "Help!"
The minute this cry comes, we then begin our movement.
And we move with them as long as they are.
And we would move with that entity until the day the entity chose to move to the light.
If they would hold that, you see, if they would hold that call, but they don't.
the crisis is resolved, they go back to their normal way of existing,
they're very grateful that they're still, you know, all right and whatever,
or if their son has been saved or, you know, many times you see this kind of thing.
The promises are forgotten, or if they're done, they're done as just a debt to be paid.
But, but, with that call, something has happened, you see.
Now, with that little wedge, they are then able to have another light harmony move for them.
You see? It's as if there's a crack in the sphere, and the light rushes into that sphere, and it remains there.
And it draws to it, its own likeness now, which is light. You see?
And eventually, as the years go on, as lives go on, more crises happen as is the designated time.
One of the main reasons for crises is to continually crack this sphere open more and more and more and more
until it is nothing but a ball of gold and white. That is what you're really aiming for.
As each one of these crises enters in, it cracks it open more and more, and each time, you see, more rushes in.
You see, and that gives them a greater chance the next time to call it light form, because light calls light.
You see, and much of the sphere may still have, pressing on it, the negative similarities,
but then we mustn't forget that that is also here, this light.
And what happens so often, you see a young child with a great many problems and you think, "Poor thing, poor thing."
From our perception, this is not true.
You see, it is often the opposite.
Some of the strongest entities in the life cycle
are those whose childhoods were extremely difficult.
Because it's at these junctures that they intuitively call out
and bring into them, through their call, more of the light.
You see what I mean?
The child that has a perfect upbringing
and has a lot of joy and a lot of love,
oftentimes will find in their 20s, 30s, 40s, and so forth,
and they begin to have the craft and the spirit.
Now this is something that's set up ahead of time and doesn't need to concern us.
It's set up in certain ways because of certain desires.
Some of the hardest incarnations are taken on because of the entity's deep desire to get on with it.
You know, through this thought process of this in one lifetime.
And although things on the outside look tremendously difficult, actually they've been wise in many
ways.
But I still sense your question.
There was no Louisa Aitken two lifetimes ago.
There wasn't even someone who now, we now call Louisa Aitken.
In the changes that have gone, that she has gone through, not only as an incarnate being,
But in the freedom of the other planes in between her incarnations, there is no likeness at all.
There is residue.
And this is what we speak to in this particular point.
There is a residue.
[inaudible]
Yes, yes.
Yes, that is the kind of meaning that I'm seeking to convey.
[inaudible]
Right.
Yes, that is the kind of meaning that I'm seeking to convey.
Right, now had this woman...
It didn't have to be this particular woman from two lifetimes ago.
Had you been aware earlier in this lifetime, there were other instances,
other connections with other people that could have removed this from you.
from you. But the fact was that you at those particular junctions of your life you were
working on other things. You see there's only so many things that you can deal with at once.
And so we're always learning. And we move from one awareness to another you see. And
now here is this one coming at a very right time. Right for you and right for her. The
circumstances are set. You have the time. You're not working on anything else at the
moment this gives you the breathing space to work with it and deal with it and remove it
from your life.
Do you see it?
Did I answer your question?
I can see it.
Do I understand that you have been my teacher or do I have another teacher?
I am not your primary teacher.
I think we should e-postpone that.
I think we should even postpone that.
The
The type of connection that we seek to make, and we can make that, is best done in the
hours of the night when the world, the place in the world where you exist is in a quieter
state.
It will be easier on the woman at that time.
The channels would be much easier for her in the evening.
She has a certain intuitive movement with her child.
And in the evening when the child is in bed and taken care of and she can remove this
situation from her mind, she is much freer to do this.
And we have to be careful of her too because she, you know, she's a part of this whole
process and we are trying to be as understanding about her needs as possible.
But by all means, and please ask it again in an evening situation, and I feel quite sure
at this time that something of that nature can be done.
I find that Jim Pope has been a speaker for a long time.
No, that is not true.
He thinks he has very much said.
And it would be wonderful if there would be any advice you could give him.
I think that he has been a very good speaker.
I think he has been a very good speaker.
And he wonders whether there would be any advice you could give him.
None of this that I say now should be repeated.
Because he would not be able to hear it.
But the image of this gentleman is one of many, many layers of desires.
It's almost as if there is layers and layers of serpents of desires winding around the pole of his center being.
Is the image clear to you?
And there are many, many of them around the center core.
And...
He is drawn to the quest
because of the core of the being, which is, of course, the same core as mankind.
time. But in this particular case, he would be much better to spend his time forgetting,
almost putting aside the question of the spiritual quest, and concentrating on the human quest.
That he is not even a successful person in a functioning sense in the human material
world. And there is no grounding. He is not grounded in the sense that he is always in
a state of flux. I see this energy is given of movement, constant movement, not movement
upwards or movement downwards, but just kind of a dissipated movement in all directions,
which is interpreted to mean that his energies are simply going off in all directions and
There is no... a person who is that dissipated in the sense of energy and in the sense of
desire, he has no desire that he dissipates at will.
There's no steady, compact, concentrated impulse.
It is all dissipated.
What we will say to him is this.
Are you going to play a tape for him?
No, not right now.
I think it might be better if you simply give him a quote and then just tell him that the tape is with a woman or whatever.
Because I do not feel that he needs to be chastised.
Jesus' problem is similar to many people.
He's drawn to the spiritual world because he seeks to avoid responsibility.
And he feels that if you are a spiritual seeker, then you can overlook many of the mundane responsibilities that a human body is expected to perform.
Our advice to him is to spend a considerable amount of time looking within and finding
the thing that at the moment it seems to him he most wants to do, whatever it may be.
On the physical plane now I'm speaking, I speak in terms of work, in terms of jobs, this type
of things. And whatever he decides to make a vow within himself that for five years he
will remain with it. Five years. And stay with it. And in that time to not indulge in mind
fantasies of what he would like to be doing. But to keep the power, do you see what we're
aiming at. That if he can keep himself in a compact situation, if he has promised himself
that he will remain in a certain place for five years, he will draw to him the concentrated,
compact consciousness that is the primary prerequisite before you can even begin the most elementary
stages of a spiritual path. And you see this gentleman doesn't have it. And one of the
reasons he doesn't have it is his continual moving from place to place and thing to thing
and person to person and thought to thought and fantasy to fantasy. He needs to become
compact. So, five years, one job. That's it. And no fantasies. Please make this very clear
to him, it will not do him any good to stay in one thing for five years, gritting his
teeth with the determination of, "I hate this. I don't want to be here. I wish I were doing
A, B, and C." The idea is to get his mind so concentrated on what he is doing that he would
be able to perceive the joy that is inherent in any occupation. In any occupation, there
is inherent in it, a spontaneous joy, a spontaneous enjoyment, participation, all things are possible
in any position you think. So this would be our advice to him, a five year commitment and
see if he can work for it. Now make no other statements around it, for example, please don't
say, a five-year commitment to one woman, for example. That would be extremely unwise. And
do not in any way please stress disciplines like whatever he chooses to do on that periphery
is really not important. It will be sufficient unto the day if he will be able to do this
one thing of finding this spontaneous joy and creation and creative response in one job
for five years.
Now the woman has a question.
What would help her to overcome her oversensitive reactions when negativity is directed at her?
Well, that's a good question because it's plagued her for many years.
Basically, she needs to understand one thing.
The negativity that comes from others to her is essentially a negative.
It's a negative that comes from others to her.
Well, that's a good question because it's plagued her for many years.
Basically, she needs to understand one thing.
The negativity that comes from others to her is essentially not terribly important.
She tends to feel that things are more important than they really are.
She...
Someone will say something to her, the person who says it to her is perhaps being very casual about it
and doesn't even think about it in the next five minutes
but she herself is taking it in and broods on it and worries on it and so forth, you see.
Now, this is an old habit and can easily be broken and it must be broken and it's in the process of being broken
And the step that she has to take is the minute that she feels, for example, someone says
something to her that hurts, that makes her feel unworthy or depressed or inferior or
there are many things that one could feel.
And by the way, this applies to many people and not just to the woman herself.
The first thing, the first thing that should cross her conscious mind is, "I choose not
to dwell in it."
And then, if she still feels the pull of that kind of, because all it is is an indulgence
in a negative kind of a thought situation, then all she has to do is to say, "I choose
to dwell in," and then pick something else, "whatever, whatever is most joyful for her."
In her case, most definitely, just to choose to dwell in the presence of God, which is
very much what she does most of the time, is try to feel, even to the physical feeling
of the God presence around her.
She is moving into that kind of an awareness and is able often to feel the pulsations of
the higher forces directly around her.
And if she will just make a conscious choice of saying, "I don't choose that," you see,
and then not to continue to think on these things, to drop it and to select to choose
this other and to move into those feelings.
I think she will find in, I would predict in weeks, not months, in weeks, that she would
be able to drop that.
And I would suggest to other people who might have access to this data, the same process.
Each time something comes into your consciousness you have a choice.
You can take it in and become obsessed with it and deal with it and worry about it or
you can say I choose something else and select whatever it is that brings light to your mind
rather than darkness.
It's simply a choice.
If a symbol of the void is beautiful that should be dwelt on.
If the light or the cross or the Christ or the whatever, those symbols should be, that
is what they're for.
The symbols of the world are there for you to use, and that's the kind of time that we
ask you to use them.
We also like your opinion on the Court of Miracles, which you follow.
Well, I think it's a wonderful thing, and I highly encourage her in all aspects of it.
Now it is not for everyone and she must be aware that there will be much criticism and
in ensuing years there will be a controversy over this course because it professes as you
know to come from the Christ himself and there will be a great deal of controversy.
Now she has thought about this herself and the answer for her is, I believe you're all
aware of the fact that the Course says that it is Jesus himself that speaks. And in a
sense this is absolutely true. There is nothing in that Course that does not come from the
highest source of the Christ vibration. Now, it is really not important to say, "Does it
come from the persona that we consider to be Jesus?" There is nothing that is in that
course that does not reflect the highest, the highest that the Christ as personified by
Jesus has to offer. And she can go into it without any trepidation whatsoever. Many people
will not understand it. I do not encourage her to talk about it. I think that she should,
especially around very orthodox Christians,
should make absolutely no mention of it.
They will do what they can to undermine it.
And she should just let them go on their way,
because everybody needs what they need.
And this is a very definite response to her soul call for guidance.
And I use it often to connect with her,
because she believes in it.
She, you see, she responded immediately to the deep truth that lies there.
And she is able to throw out the extraneous and to dwell on the essence of it.
And this is why for her it's so very vital that she continue with it.
Because she is able out of all the pages and pages to pick those kernels that are the highest.
and to begin to believe what it is that she needs to believe, that she is, you see, a part of this whole drama of God.
So yes, by all means.
You mentioned the persona of Jesus.
Yes, what you said about the changing constantly, the persona of Jesus no longer exists, but the Christ did exist.
The persona of Jesus is in a sense so much more powerful, so much more radiant, so much
more awe-inspiring than it was two thousand years ago, that were we to meet him on the
earth plane today as they did then, it is doubtful that any physical vehicle could encompass.
I mean, he too has moved to realms, you see.
There is no end.
It is hard to explain, but there is no end to the capacity to expand into the total Godness.
Did you want me to stop?
There is no end to the infinite, and the persona of Jesus in the two thousand years since he
he left the earth plane, has continued to radiate and to grow in life and wisdom, that those
who tune into him now are given so much more than they were two thousand years ago, you
see?
Because he himself has moved through, he is so much closer to the totality of things than
he was then, that his gift throughout the centuries increases. You see, it's so funny, the world
says two thousand years ago, and puts him as an old archaic form. In truth, he is so
much more now than he ever was, that he is an even greater gift to mankind now than he
was then, you see, and it is so opposite. He is the source that I draw to. He is the source
that I look to for my wisdom. And in my state of exaltation, I do my very best to reach
the height that he was a two thousand years ago, you see. And he has so far transcended
that now that someone like myself could walk the plane, the earth plane now and be considered
on that vibrational level, but not him. If he came back in the form that he was, I mean
that he is now, well, we won't even speculate about that. But do you, are there any questions
in the room? Yes, I have a question. Yes? Did you speak on the subject of the second coming
of Jesus Christ? Ah, well, again, there's been an awful lot of misinformation filtered through
various people on this subject. And it is true that he will come again and blessed is
the world with the crystal.